Project1-Simple-Linear-regresson-on-Fuel-economy
Acadgild-Projec1-Simple-Linear-regresson-on-Fuel-economy
DATA ANALYTICS WITH R, EXCEL AND TABLEAU -Project 1;1 Fuel economy Linear regression analysis AC A D G I L D

                                          Project 1.1
Introduction You are provided with two datasets, “FE2010.csv” and “FE2011.csv”. You are required to work on “FE2010.csv” only for any kind of experiment. The datasets contain different estimates of fuel economy for passenger cars and trucks. For each vehicle, various characteristics are recorded such as the engine displacement or number of cylinders. Along with these values, laboratory measurements are made for the city and highway fuel economy (FE) of the car. Analyze the data on the relationship between fuel economy and engine displacement. The training data consists of model year 2010 data and the test set is comprised of cars from 2011 that were not in the 2010 data set. You are required to build a Regression Model for fuel economy (FE), by choosing a single input variable which is the best suitable for predicting FE. You will use 2010 dataset for this purpose. All your work will be validated on 2011 dataset.
Objective The project aims to perform Simple Regression Analysis on Fuel Economy Data.
Associated Data Files https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3nTkXniPMACMUc0RVJXODhlUDA/view?usp=sharing
Problem Statement Below are the points which your final submission should answer: Use Excel and Functions 1. Find the best input variable for predicting FE using suitable statistical test(s). 2. Fit a Simple Linear Regression Model using the selected input variable. Use the formulas discussed in the class to calculate the coefficients. 3. Observe the relationship between the Input variable and FE and analyze if they maintain a linear relationship using a suitable chart in Excel. 4. Use appropriate transformation of input variable if the relation above is not linear. Build the Regression model after transformation. Please ask the course instructor for help in variable transformation, if you required so. 5. Calculate the MAPE (Mean Absolute percentage Error) and R2 of the model. Implement the model on the test data and find out the test accuracy as well. The formula and small note for the error calculation are given at the end of the document. 6. Use a random sampling method to divide the dataset in to 3 parts. Use rand() function. A C A D G I L D Page 4 a. Take 2 parts for modeling and 1 part for testing at a time randomly. b. Check the modeling Error statistics (as given in previous point 5) of the model and test on the 3rd part of the data for testing the error. c. Iterate this process 3 time to cover all possible selection of 2 parts for modeling and the 3rd part for testing. There are 3 possible combination in this way. So you would end up with creating 3 models on three different dataset. d. Calculate the average model accuracy (Use Error formulas from 5.) and average test accuracy. Judge if they are consistent and provide your comment on what you observe. e. Compute the Beta coefficients by taking average of the three models. f. Test the final Accuracy by implementing the model on 2011 dataset. Use Excel Data Analysis tool 7. Use Data Analysis feature of Excel to bypass the co-efficient calculation formulas and compute the Regression Model directly. 8. You should be able to repeat all the points asked under “Use Excel” using Data Analysis tool. You may need to do the random sampling separately here as well. Use MySQL 9. Upload the 2010 and 2011 dataset into a MySQL database named “fuel_economy”. The table name should be “fe2010” and “fe2011” respectively. 10. You have already calculated the beta coefficients for the full 2010 dataset. Insert two additional columns for the beta coefficients in the “fe2010” table and populate the columns with beta values. You can just take the previously calculate beta values to populate here. Remember the beta values will be constant for each column here. 11. Once point 10. is done, Calculate the Predicted value for “feb2011” table by using the input variable from “feb2011” and beta coefficients from “feb2010” table. Insert the predicted values in an additional column in table “feb2010”.
This project is performed in EXcel initially and for confirmation of linearity of the variable with Fuel efficiency(FE) we have performed Regression analysis in R.

Various calculations and operations performed in Excel and Excel analytics to complete the task

Further the Beta coefficient data were populated in MySQL and predicted the Fuel efficiency through MYSQL coding

R and Excel analytics are submitted as Project1 - simple linear regression on Fuel Economy as Part1 and MySQL coding as per the project requirements is submitted in Project 1 Fuel economy as part 2
